#summary Getting started with EASL.

= Introduction =
This page will get you up and running using EASL.


= Installing =
Getting access to the library is as simple as following these steps.

  # Download the source code package.
  # Extract the "easl" folder from inside the package to somewhere on the hard disk.
  # Configure you compiler to look for header file in the folder that the "easl" folder was extracted into.
  # Start using the library.


= Using EASL =
EASL is a header library, so you need only include certain header files to begin using the library. There is no need to link against particular libraries.

To begin using EASL, simply include the file `<easl/easl.h>`, like so:
{{{
#include <easl/easl.h>
}}}

All of the functionality in EASL is under the `esl` namespace. Anything to do with UTF encoded strings is contained within an additional namespace called `utf`. The `utf` namespace itself is in the `esl` namespace, so it is more accurately the `esl::utf` namespace.

EASL is made up of two main sections: a low level, C-like function section; and a higher level C++ `std::string`-like section. Having the library structured like this gives developers the most flexibility.

The C-like string manipulation routines work mostly the same as the standard C library equivalents. One major difference is that there is no difference in the name of the function for different string encodings. For example, to copy a string you simply use the `esl::strcpy()` function for all types of string encodings - `char *` and `wchar_t *` alike.

Note that for UTF encoded strings, all string manipulation routines are found in the `esl::utf` namespace. So, with the example above, you would use `esl::utf::strcpy()` instead.


= Using UTF Encoding =
EASL has support for UTF encoded strings. The support encodings are UTF-8, UTF-16 and UTF-32. The table below illustrates the data types to use for the different encodings:

|| *String Data Type* || *Encoding* ||
|| `char8_t *`        || UTF-8      ||
|| `char16_t *`       || UTF-16     ||
|| `char32_t *`       || UTF-32     ||

So, a string declared as `char8_t *` is encoded in UTF-8; a `char16_t *` string is encoded as UTF-16 and a `char32_t *` string is encoded as UTF-32.

Any function working with a UTF encoded string type is contained in the `esl::utf` namespace. The `esl` namespace contains only those functions that work on `char *` and `wchar_t *` strings. These functions are only wrappers around the C standard functions.

== `wchar_t` and UTF ==
EASL assumes that any string contained as a `wchar_t` is UTF encoded. However, different platforms designate `wchar_t`'s with different sizes. On Windows, a `wchar_t` is 16-bit. On Linux, it's 32-bit. The specific encoding that EASL assumes depends on the size of a `wchar_t`. The table below illustrates the assumptions EASL makes.

|| *`sizeof(wchar_t)`* || *UTF Encoding* ||
||          1          ||     UTF-8      ||
||          2          ||     UTF-16     ||
||          4          ||     UTF-32     ||

More information about `wchar_t` and UTF encodings can be found in the [TechnicalInfo Technical Information] wiki.


= Examples =

